docker/docker_notes.md, before:


# docker

1. [references](#references)
1. [docker basic](#docker_basic)
1. [install docker](#install_docker)
   1. [set up docker repository](#set_up_docker_repository)
   1. [install docker ce](#install_docker_ce)

1. [basic docker operations](#basic_docker_operations)
   1. [list docker images](#list_docker_images)
   1. [run a docker and check ubuntu version of docker image](#run_a_docker_and_check_ubuntu_version_of_docker_image)
   1. [create a container](#create_a_container)
   1. [start a container](#start_a_container)
   1. [stop a container](#stop_a_container)
   1. [attach to a running container](#attach_to_a_running_container)
   1. [docker run](#docker_run)
   1. [list container](#list_container)
   1. [create docker image](#create_docker_image)
   1. [export container](#export_container)
   1. [import container](#import_container)
   1. [save image](#save_image)
   1. [load image](#load_image)
   1. [show history of image](#show_history_of_image)

1. misc
   1. [Solving Docker permission denied](#permission_denied)

1. [examples](docker_examples.md)
   1. [create a ubuntu 14.04 container for arm 4.3.2 toolchain](docker_examples.md#create_ubuntu_1404_container_for_arm_toolchain)
   1. [create a ubuntu 16.04 container for meson build system](docker_examples.md#create_ubuntu_1604_container_for_meson_build_system)
   1. [create a ubuntu 16.04 container for hc1892 sdk](docker_examples.md#create_ubuntu_1604_container_for_hc1892_sdk)
   1. [create a ubuntu 14.04 container for dhpw310av](docker_examples.md#create_ubuntu_1404_container_for_dhpw310av)
   1. [ftp server](docker_examples.md#ftp_server)

---

<a name="references" />

## references
* [docker_practice](https://philipzheng.gitbooks.io/docker_practice/content/)
* [docker_theory_install](https://joshhu.gitbooks.io/docker_theory_install/content/)

<a name="docker_basic" />

## docker basic
* Docker I/O
* Repository
* Image
   - Images are created with the build command, and they will produce a container when started with run.
   - Images are stored in a Docker registry such as registry.hub.docker.com.
* Container
   - An instance of an image is called a container.
   - you create a new container based on an image.
   - You can think about images and containers as a class and an instance of class.

---

## container vs.virtual machines
* **virtual machine diagram**

    <img src="https://www.docker.com/sites/default/files/VM%402x.png" width=450>

* **container diagram**

    <img src="https://www.docker.com/sites/default/files/Container%402x.png" width=450>


---

<a name="install_docker" />

## install docker

<a name="set_up_docker_repository" />

### set up docker repository
1. update apt package index.
```
sudo apt-get update
```

2. install packages to allow apt to use a repository over https.
```
sudo apt-get install apt-transport-https ca-certificates curl software-properties-common
```

3. add docker's official GPG key.
```
curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg | sudo apt-key add -
```

4. set up the stable docker repository.
```
sudo add-apt-repository "deb [arch=amd64] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu $(lsb_release -cs) stable"
```

<a name="install_docker_ce" />

### install docker ce
1. update apt package index.
```
sudo apt-get update
```

2. install the latest version of docker ce.
```
sudo apt-get install docker-ce
```

3. verify if docker is installed correctly.
```
docker run ubuntu:10.04 /bin/echo 'Hello docker'
```

---
<a name='basic_docker_operations'/>

## basic docker operations

<a name="list_docker_images" />

### list docker images
- usage
```
Usage:  docker images [OPTIONS] [REPOSITORY[:TAG]]
```

- list docker images
```
jacob_shih:dockertest$ docker images
REPOSITORY                      TAG                 IMAGE ID            CREATED             SIZE
alphadocker/ubt1404_arm-4.3.2   0.00.01             091b0fc7e71f        17 hours ago        886MB
ubuntu                          latest              f7b3f317ec73        5 months ago        117MB
ubuntu                          14.04               302fa07d8117        6 months ago        188MB
ubuntu                          10.04               e21dbcc7c9de        3 years ago         183MB
```

<a name="run_a_docker_and_check_ubuntu_version_of_docker_image" />

### run a docker and check ubuntu version of docker image
```
jacob_shih:dockertest$ docker run --rm ubuntu:10.04 lsb_release -a
No LSB modules are available.
Distributor ID: Ubuntu
Description:    Ubuntu 10.04 LTS
Release:        10.04
Codename:       lucid
```

```
jacob_shih:dockertest$ docker run --rm ubuntu:14.04 lsb_release -a
Distributor ID: Ubuntu
Description:    Ubuntu 14.04.5 LTS
Release:        14.04
Codename:       trusty
No LSB modules are available.
```

<a name="create_a_container" />

### create a container

- usage
```
Usage:  docker create [OPTIONS] IMAGE [COMMAND] [ARG...]

Create a new container

Options:
  -e, --env list                       Set environment variables
  -h, --hostname string                Container host name
  -i, --interactive                    Keep STDIN open even if not attached
      --link list                      Add link to another container
      --name string                    Assign a name to the container
  -p, --publish list                   Publish a container's port(s) to the host
  -P, --publish-all                    Publish all exposed ports to random ports
  -t, --tty                            Allocate a pseudo-TTY
  -v, --volume list                    Bind mount a volume
  -w, --workdir string                 Working directory inside the container
```

- create a container with default name
```
docker create -it ubuntu:14.04
```

- create a container with specified name
```
docker create -it --name ubt1404 ubuntu:14.04
```

- create a container with admin privilege
```
docker create -it --name ubt1404 --privileged --cap-add SYS_ADMIN --cap-add DAC_READ_SEARCH ubuntu:14.04
```

- create a container with environment variables
```
docker create -it --name ubt1404 --env PATH=/home/hello --env HELLO=WORLD ubuntu:14.04
```

- mount a host folder to container
```
docker create -it --name ubt1404 -v /home/jacob_shih/temp/dockertest:/tmp/dockertest ubuntu:14.04
```

<a name="start_a_container" />

### start a container
- usage
```
Usage:  docker start [OPTIONS] CONTAINER [CONTAINER...]
```

- start a container with specified name
```
docker start ubt1404
```

<a name="stop_a_container" />

### stop a container
- usage
```
Usage:  docker stop [OPTIONS] CONTAINER [CONTAINER...]
```

- stop a container with specified name
```
docker stop ubt1404
```

<a name="attach_to_a_running_container" />

### attach to a running container
- usage
```
Usage:  docker attach [OPTIONS] CONTAINER
```

- attach local stdin, stdout and stderr streams to a running container
```
docker attach ubt1404
```

<a name="docker_run" />

### docker run
- usage
```
Usage:  docker run [OPTIONS] IMAGE [COMMAND] [ARG...]

Run a command in a new container

Options:
  -a, --attach list                    Attach to STDIN, STDOUT or STDERR
  -d, --detach                         Run container in background and print container ID
      --dns list                       Set custom DNS servers
  -e, --env list                       Set environment variables
  -i, --interactive                    Keep STDIN open even if not attached
      --mount mount                    Attach a filesystem mount to the container
      --name string                    Assign a name to the container
  -p, --publish list                   Publish a container's port(s) to the host
      --rm                             Automatically remove the container when it exits
  -t, --tty                            Allocate a pseudo-TTY
  -v, --volume list                    Bind mount a volume
  -w, --workdir string                 Working directory inside the container
```

- to start the process in the container and attach the console to the process's stdin, stdout and stderr.
```
docker run -it --name mytest ubuntu:14.04
```

<a name="list_container" />

### list container
- usage
```
Usage:  docker ps [OPTIONS]

List containers

Options:
  -a, --all             Show all containers (default shows just running)
```

- to show only running containers
```
docker ps
```

- to show all containers
```
docker ps -a
```

- to show the latest created container
```
docker ps -l
```

- to show only running containers
```
docker ps
```

<a name="create_docker_image" />

### create docker image
- usage:
```
docker commit [-m message] [-a author] CONTAINER REPOSITORY:TAG
```

- example:
```
docker commit -m 'arm-4.3.2' -a 'jacob_shih' ubt1404_arm-4.3.2 alphadocker/ubt1404_arm-4.3.2:0.01
```

<a name="export_container" />

### export container
- usage
```
Usage:  docker export [OPTIONS] CONTAINER

Options:
  -o, --output string   Write to a file, instead of STDOUT
```

- export a container as a tar archive
```
docker export -o ubt1404.tar ubt1404
```

- export a container as a tar archive by redirecting stdout to a tar file
```
docker export ubt1404 > ubt1404.tar
```

<a name="import_container" />

### import container
- usage
```
Usage:  docker import [OPTIONS] file|URL|- [REPOSITORY[:TAG]]
```

- import the contents from a tarball to create a filesystem image
```
docker import ubt1404.tar dockertest/ubt1404:0.01
```

- import docker image from stdin by concatenating tar file to stdout
```
cat ubt1404.tar | docker import - dockertest/ubt1404:0.01
```

<a name="save_image" />

### save image
- usage
```
Usage:  docker save [OPTIONS] IMAGE [IMAGE...]

Options:
  -o, --output string   Write to a file, instead of STDOUT
```

- save one or more images to a tar archive
```
docker save dockertest/ubt1404:0.01 -o saved_ubt1404.tar
```

<a name="load_image" />

### load image
- usage
```
Usage:  docker load [OPTIONS]

Options:
  -i, --input string   Read from tar archive file, instead of STDIN
```

- load an image from a tar archive
```
docker load --input saved_ubt1404.tar
```

<a name="show_history_of_image" />

### show history of image
- usage
```
Usage:  docker history [OPTIONS] IMAGE
```

- show the history of an image
```
docker history alphadocker/ubt1604_hc1892_user:0.01
```

---

## misc

<a name="permission_denied" />

### Solving Docker permission denied

* [Solving Docker permission denied while trying to connect to the Docker daemon socket](https://techoverflow.net/2017/03/01/solving-docker-permission-denied-while-trying-to-connect-to-the-docker-daemon-socket/)

```
sudo usermod -a -G docker $USER
```

---

Commit message:

What - [docker] revise docker/docker_notes.md. @Description/root cause - Why  - Setup terminal width and height parameters to container with docker exec command.
@Resolution - How
    as described in description/root cause section.

@Reviewer
none.

@Tickets
none.

docker/docker_notes.md, after:


# docker

1. [references](#references)
1. [docker basic](#docker_basic)
1. [install docker](#install_docker)
   1. [set up docker repository](#set_up_docker_repository)
   1. [install docker ce](#install_docker_ce)

1. [basic docker operations](#basic_docker_operations)
   1. [list docker images](#list_docker_images)
   1. [run a docker and check ubuntu version of docker image](#run_a_docker_and_check_ubuntu_version_of_docker_image)
   1. [create a container](#create_a_container)
   1. [start a container](#start_a_container)
   1. [stop a container](#stop_a_container)
   1. [attach to a running container](#attach_to_a_running_container)
   1. [docker run](#docker_run)
   1. [list container](#list_container)
   1. [create docker image](#create_docker_image)
   1. [export container](#export_container)
   1. [import container](#import_container)
   1. [save image](#save_image)
   1. [load image](#load_image)
   1. [show history of image](#show_history_of_image)

1. misc
   1. [Solving Docker permission denied](#permission_denied)
   1. [Setup terminal width and height parameters to container with docker exec command](#resize_terminal)

1. [examples](docker_examples.md)
   1. [create a ubuntu 14.04 container for arm 4.3.2 toolchain](docker_examples.md#create_ubuntu_1404_container_for_arm_toolchain)
   1. [create a ubuntu 16.04 container for meson build system](docker_examples.md#create_ubuntu_1604_container_for_meson_build_system)
   1. [create a ubuntu 16.04 container for hc1892 sdk](docker_examples.md#create_ubuntu_1604_container_for_hc1892_sdk)
   1. [create a ubuntu 14.04 container for dhpw310av](docker_examples.md#create_ubuntu_1404_container_for_dhpw310av)
   1. [ftp server](docker_examples.md#ftp_server)

---

<a name="references" />

## references
* [docker_practice](https://philipzheng.gitbooks.io/docker_practice/content/)
* [docker_theory_install](https://joshhu.gitbooks.io/docker_theory_install/content/)

<a name="docker_basic" />

## docker basic
* Docker I/O
* Repository
* Image
   - Images are created with the build command, and they will produce a container when started with run.
   - Images are stored in a Docker registry such as registry.hub.docker.com.
* Container
   - An instance of an image is called a container.
   - you create a new container based on an image.
   - You can think about images and containers as a class and an instance of class.

---

## container vs.virtual machines
* **virtual machine diagram**

    <img src="https://www.docker.com/sites/default/files/VM%402x.png" width=450>

* **container diagram**

    <img src="https://www.docker.com/sites/default/files/Container%402x.png" width=450>


---

<a name="install_docker" />

## install docker

<a name="set_up_docker_repository" />

### set up docker repository
1. update apt package index.
```
sudo apt-get update
```

2. install packages to allow apt to use a repository over https.
```
sudo apt-get install apt-transport-https ca-certificates curl software-properties-common
```

3. add docker's official GPG key.
```
curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg | sudo apt-key add -
```

4. set up the stable docker repository.
```
sudo add-apt-repository "deb [arch=amd64] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu $(lsb_release -cs) stable"
```

<a name="install_docker_ce" />

### install docker ce
1. update apt package index.
```
sudo apt-get update
```

2. install the latest version of docker ce.
```
sudo apt-get install docker-ce
```

3. verify if docker is installed correctly.
```
docker run ubuntu:10.04 /bin/echo 'Hello docker'
```

---
<a name='basic_docker_operations'/>

## basic docker operations

<a name="list_docker_images" />

### list docker images
- usage
```
Usage:  docker images [OPTIONS] [REPOSITORY[:TAG]]
```

- list docker images
```
jacob_shih:dockertest$ docker images
REPOSITORY                      TAG                 IMAGE ID            CREATED             SIZE
alphadocker/ubt1404_arm-4.3.2   0.00.01             091b0fc7e71f        17 hours ago        886MB
ubuntu                          latest              f7b3f317ec73        5 months ago        117MB
ubuntu                          14.04               302fa07d8117        6 months ago        188MB
ubuntu                          10.04               e21dbcc7c9de        3 years ago         183MB
```

<a name="run_a_docker_and_check_ubuntu_version_of_docker_image" />

### run a docker and check ubuntu version of docker image
```
jacob_shih:dockertest$ docker run --rm ubuntu:10.04 lsb_release -a
No LSB modules are available.
Distributor ID: Ubuntu
Description:    Ubuntu 10.04 LTS
Release:        10.04
Codename:       lucid
```

```
jacob_shih:dockertest$ docker run --rm ubuntu:14.04 lsb_release -a
Distributor ID: Ubuntu
Description:    Ubuntu 14.04.5 LTS
Release:        14.04
Codename:       trusty
No LSB modules are available.
```

<a name="create_a_container" />

### create a container

- usage
```
Usage:  docker create [OPTIONS] IMAGE [COMMAND] [ARG...]

Create a new container

Options:
  -e, --env list                       Set environment variables
  -h, --hostname string                Container host name
  -i, --interactive                    Keep STDIN open even if not attached
      --link list                      Add link to another container
      --name string                    Assign a name to the container
  -p, --publish list                   Publish a container's port(s) to the host
  -P, --publish-all                    Publish all exposed ports to random ports
  -t, --tty                            Allocate a pseudo-TTY
  -v, --volume list                    Bind mount a volume
  -w, --workdir string                 Working directory inside the container
```

- create a container with default name
```
docker create -it ubuntu:14.04
```

- create a container with specified name
```
docker create -it --name ubt1404 ubuntu:14.04
```

- create a container with admin privilege
```
docker create -it --name ubt1404 --privileged --cap-add SYS_ADMIN --cap-add DAC_READ_SEARCH ubuntu:14.04
```

- create a container with environment variables
```
docker create -it --name ubt1404 --env PATH=/home/hello --env HELLO=WORLD ubuntu:14.04
```

- mount a host folder to container
```
docker create -it --name ubt1404 -v /home/jacob_shih/temp/dockertest:/tmp/dockertest ubuntu:14.04
```

<a name="start_a_container" />

### start a container
- usage
```
Usage:  docker start [OPTIONS] CONTAINER [CONTAINER...]
```

- start a container with specified name
```
docker start ubt1404
```

<a name="stop_a_container" />

### stop a container
- usage
```
Usage:  docker stop [OPTIONS] CONTAINER [CONTAINER...]
```

- stop a container with specified name
```
docker stop ubt1404
```

<a name="attach_to_a_running_container" />

### attach to a running container
- usage
```
Usage:  docker attach [OPTIONS] CONTAINER
```

- attach local stdin, stdout and stderr streams to a running container
```
docker attach ubt1404
```

<a name="docker_run" />

### docker run
- usage
```
Usage:  docker run [OPTIONS] IMAGE [COMMAND] [ARG...]

Run a command in a new container

Options:
  -a, --attach list                    Attach to STDIN, STDOUT or STDERR
  -d, --detach                         Run container in background and print container ID
      --dns list                       Set custom DNS servers
  -e, --env list                       Set environment variables
  -i, --interactive                    Keep STDIN open even if not attached
      --mount mount                    Attach a filesystem mount to the container
      --name string                    Assign a name to the container
  -p, --publish list                   Publish a container's port(s) to the host
      --rm                             Automatically remove the container when it exits
  -t, --tty                            Allocate a pseudo-TTY
  -v, --volume list                    Bind mount a volume
  -w, --workdir string                 Working directory inside the container
```

- to start the process in the container and attach the console to the process's stdin, stdout and stderr.
```
docker run -it --name mytest ubuntu:14.04
```

<a name="list_container" />

### list container
- usage
```
Usage:  docker ps [OPTIONS]

List containers

Options:
  -a, --all             Show all containers (default shows just running)
```

- to show only running containers
```
docker ps
```

- to show all containers
```
docker ps -a
```

- to show the latest created container
```
docker ps -l
```

- to show only running containers
```
docker ps
```

<a name="create_docker_image" />

### create docker image
- usage:
```
docker commit [-m message] [-a author] CONTAINER REPOSITORY:TAG
```

- example:
```
docker commit -m 'arm-4.3.2' -a 'jacob_shih' ubt1404_arm-4.3.2 alphadocker/ubt1404_arm-4.3.2:0.01
```

<a name="export_container" />

### export container
- usage
```
Usage:  docker export [OPTIONS] CONTAINER

Options:
  -o, --output string   Write to a file, instead of STDOUT
```

- export a container as a tar archive
```
docker export -o ubt1404.tar ubt1404
```

- export a container as a tar archive by redirecting stdout to a tar file
```
docker export ubt1404 > ubt1404.tar
```

<a name="import_container" />

### import container
- usage
```
Usage:  docker import [OPTIONS] file|URL|- [REPOSITORY[:TAG]]
```

- import the contents from a tarball to create a filesystem image
```
docker import ubt1404.tar dockertest/ubt1404:0.01
```

- import docker image from stdin by concatenating tar file to stdout
```
cat ubt1404.tar | docker import - dockertest/ubt1404:0.01
```

<a name="save_image" />

### save image
- usage
```
Usage:  docker save [OPTIONS] IMAGE [IMAGE...]

Options:
  -o, --output string   Write to a file, instead of STDOUT
```

- save one or more images to a tar archive
```
docker save dockertest/ubt1404:0.01 -o saved_ubt1404.tar
```

<a name="load_image" />

### load image
- usage
```
Usage:  docker load [OPTIONS]

Options:
  -i, --input string   Read from tar archive file, instead of STDIN
```

- load an image from a tar archive
```
docker load --input saved_ubt1404.tar
```

<a name="show_history_of_image" />

### show history of image
- usage
```
Usage:  docker history [OPTIONS] IMAGE
```

- show the history of an image
```
docker history alphadocker/ubt1604_hc1892_user:0.01
```

---

## misc

<a name="permission_denied" />

### Solving Docker permission denied

* [Solving Docker permission denied while trying to connect to the Docker daemon socket](https://techoverflow.net/2017/03/01/solving-docker-permission-denied-while-trying-to-connect-to-the-docker-daemon-socket/)

```
sudo usermod -a -G docker $USER
```

<a name="resize_terminal" />

### Setup terminal width and height parameters to container with docker exec command

```
docker exec -e COLUMNS="`tput cols`" -e LINES="`tput lines`" -it [CONTAINER] [COMMAND]
```

---
